BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Sign in
Home
News
Sport
Business
Innovation
Culture
Travel
More menu
Search BBC
BBC News
Home
Israel-Gaza war
War in Ukraine
Climate
Video
World
Asia
UK
Business
Tech
More
World
Africa
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada
Live. 
61,575 viewing
61575 viewing
China accuses US of bullying over 104% tariff, as European markets fall again

Watch live
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lin Jian extends his arm and gestures in front of a blue backdrop reading: Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Advertisement

Summary
China accuses the White House of "bullying practices" after Donald Trump imposed 104% duties on Chinese goods into the US

The duties on China kicked in after Beijing refused to meet Trump's deadline to withdraw its own retaliatory levies on the US - here's a timeline of how we got here

China's exports to the US amount to 2% of its total economic activity and the message from Beijing is they can ride this out, reports Stephen McDonell

Steeper tariffs on 60 countries - which Trump deems the "worst offenders" on trade - came into effect today

Trump says impacted countries are calling up and "kissing my ass" in a bid to negotiate as experts warn tariffs could increase prices

Markets tracker: European stocks drop and major Asian markets extend their losses. Meanwhile, investors are selling their long term US government bonds - traditionally considered a "safe haven" asset


00:54
Media caption,
Watch: Trump says tariffs will be 'legendary' ahead of 104% tax on China

Live Reporting
Edited by Neha Gohil and Adam Durbin

Russia says Trump tariffs 'violate' international trade rules
published at 16:40
16:40
Maria Zakharova
Image source,Getty
Image caption,
Russia's foreign ministry spokesperson says that the country is increasing its interactions with China

Russia has accused the US of flouting international trade rules by imposing 104% charges on imports from China.

“Washington doesn’t seem itself binded by the norms of international trade law,” Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova says.

When Donald Trump raised border taxes on Chinese goods by 10% in February, China complained to the World Trade Organization (WTO), which settles trade disputes.

Zakharova says the tariff decisions taken by Trump “violate the fundamental rule of the WTO”.

Russia has been spared from the list of over 60 countries hit by Trump’s latest tariffs, but the foreign ministry spokesperson tells reporters that the country is taking steps to minimise any possible damage by increasing its interactions with China.


Share
Analysis
As world reacts to tariffs, Bank of England remains on high alert
published at 16:27
16:27

Dharshini David
Deputy economics editor

We’re caught in a tempestuous world - but the finances of British households, businesses and banks are well placed to weather the storm.

That was the conclusion from the regular meeting of the Bank of England committee which oversees financial stability.

It noted that the upheaval to global trade arrangements and increased uncertainty triggered by President Trump’s tariff announcements could affect financial stability by depressing growth - risks relevant to the UK, given its exposure to trade and large financial sector.

However, with households holding the smallest amount of debt relative to incomes since 2001, they and most businesses were judged highly resilient - and the banking system as being well equipped to cope, even if conditions deteriorate.

But the panel highlighted several risks including a further breakdown in global cooperation and more sharp falls in financial markets.

As ever, journalists were herded into an oppressive basement deep under the Bank to be briefed on this report, watched over by a security guard.

The war room ambience felt apt.

The lessons of the 2008 financial crisis have resulted in a safer, more robust financial system - but also means the Bank remains on high alert.


Share
Analysis
Trump's higher tariff on Japan leaves Tokyo stunned
published at 16:20
16:20

Shaimaa Khalil
Tokyo correspondent

People walk down a tourist road in Asakusa, Japan
Image source,Reuters
At the closing of trading today, Tokyo was stunned.

Not just because it’s looking into billions of dollars in projected losses, and a rollercoaster market ride – but as the US’s key economic and security ally in Asia, Japan feels betrayed.

Tokyo’s relationship with DC could not be more different from Beijing. One is a friend and the other is a foe. And yet it feels like Japan too must swallow the ramifications of the global reciprocal tariffs.

There’s a “how could you do this to us” sentiment in the political air here.

Japanese Prime Minister Shigiru Ishiba said the “whole country needs to be united” in the face of a “national crisis.”

The government has set up over a thousand consultation desks at financial institutions and business organisations nationwide, from Hokkaido in the north to Miyako Island in the south, to field tariff-related inquiries.

“We need to rectify what needs to be rectified, without getting emotional,” Ishiba said addressing parliament last week, calling for diplomatic composure and reiterating Tokyo’s commitment to the US economy.

But with the 25% levy on cars already in place, the economic danger is real for the US ally. Japan’s car industry which makes up for 20% of its total exports is projected to suffer a $17bn loss in potential exports if these tariffs continue.

A disaster scenario that Tokyo wants to avoid – although is is still unclear how.


Share
How do US businesses and consumers feel about Trump's tariffs?
published at 16:10
16:10
Care bear toys in boxes on shelves
Image source,Getty Images
"You would laugh if you weren't crying."

Jay Foreman, whose company Basic Fun! is known for the popular Care Bear toys, says he had to put out a notice earlier this week to halt shipments from China to the US.

"If it doesn't get sorted out, them I'm going to sell down the inventory that I have in my warehouse and pray," he adds.

It's not just business owners who might be checking their calculators this morning, here's how a couple of other Americans feel about the new charges on imports:

Catherine Foster, a 58-year-old from Florida:

"I'm probably a couple of years away from retiring and I don't know if I'm going to be able to... Trump is not a king and I feel like our congress and senate is letting us down, both parties, by not pushing back."

Ben Maurer, a 38-year-old from Pennsylvania:

"Tariffs are a necessary evil... Trump's out to prove a point, that we're here to get stuff done and we're going to get stuff done."

Our New York business reporter Natalie Sherman has more reaction here

Share
UK firms fear economic downturn
published at 16:03
16:03
Mitchell Labiak
Senior economics and business reporter

The Bank of England's Financial Stability Report also gave us some insight into how businesses are feeling about the impact of tariffs.

It found that a UK economic downturn was seen by 62% of 55 companies surveyed between 27 January and 24 February as a "key source" of risk to the financial system, the highest level the survey had recorded in over a decade.

The same survey found just under half of respondents believed a UK economic downturn was the "key risk most likely to materialise", jumping by a fifth since the November survey.


Share
Tariffs heighten risk to global growth, Bank of England warns
published at 15:59
15:59
Mitchell Labiak
Senior economics and business reporter

Bank of England
Image source,EPA
Rising trade tensions from US President Donald Trump's raft of tariffs has "contributed to a material increase in the risk to global growth" and financial stability, the Bank of England says.

US tariffs and other countries' response also increases "uncertainty... for inflation globally" while the cost of government borrowing has "fallen in response to the US announcement".

However, it says, "market functioning... remains orderly" and "UK household and corporate borrowers have remained resilient".

It "maintained its judgement" that UK banks could support households and businesses even if the economy turned "substantially worse than expected".

The comments published today are part of the Bank's first Financial Stability Report (FSR) since last November - meaning it is the first time the FSR has had a chance to consider Trump's tariff policies.


Share
Analysis
US ally South Korea hopes to cut a deal to reduce 25% tariffs
published at 15:45
15:45

Jean Mackenzie
Seoul correspondent

South Korean Trade Minister Cheong In-kyo
Image source,EPA
Image caption,
South Korean Trade Minister Cheong In-kyo speaks to reporters after arriving in the US

South Korea’s trade minister is in Washington to try to negotiate a tariff deal with Donald Trump’s team. The country, which sells large numbers of cars and electronics to the US, is being hit with being hit with 25% blanket tariffs because of its large trade surplus.

Seoul does not want to go down the Chinese road of retaliatory tariffs, and get into a trade war with America. Instead, it's hoping to convince Trump to lower tariffs by promising to buy more and invest more in the US.

But it's been on the backfoot when trying to strike a deal because it doesn’t currently have a president, due to the country’s ongoing political crisis.

Last night, Trump took a call with acting president Han Duck-soo for the first time, raising hopes here.

In a post on his Truth Social platform, Trump described the call as “great”. But he referred to South Korea’s trade surplus as “tremendous and unsustainable”. He said the pair also discussed payments for the “big time military protection” Washington provides Seoul.

South Korea and the US are military allies. There are tens of thousands of US troops stationed here, which help defend against North Korea.

There is a chance Trump may agree to lower tariffs if Seoul agrees to pay more for its defence. Trump said he was using tariff negotiations to try to strike other deals, calling it “one-stop shopping”.


Share
Analysis
Tariffs could be 'nail in coffin' for small businesses, says MrBeast
published at 15:34
15:34
Tom Singleton
Technology reporter

Youtube star, MrBeast (real name Jimmy Donaldson), in a tuxedo, smiling at camera
Image source,EPA
Think of who would be affected by the global turmoil the tariff war is causing and MrBeast - the world's most successful YouTuber - probably isn't the first person who springs to mind.

But as well as making viral videos, MrBeast, whose real name is Jimmy Donaldson, has a number of side hustles, including a chocolate business, Feastables.

While it is a US company, America isn't exactly renowned as a cocoa producer, meaning their chocolate bars rely on imported raw ingredients - now facing tariffs.

The Trump administration hopes its import levies will encourage more companies to set up in the US. For Feastables, the opposite is true.

"Ironically because of all the new tariffs it is now way cheaper to make our chocolate bars we sell globally NOT in America," MrBeast posts on X.

"We'll figure it out. I feel for small businesses though. Could really be a nail in the coffin for them," he adds.

His intervention is bad news for the White House because it's a real world example of the potential unintended consequences of its policies.

But secondly - and possibly more importantly - it represents one of the most influential voices for young Americans publicly criticising the Trump tariff policy.


Share
What are tariffs and why is Trump using them?
published at 15:28
15:28
Jennifer Clarke
BBC News

Trump pointing
Image source,Reuters
Tariffs are taxes charged on goods bought from other countries.

Typically, they are a percentage of a product's value. For example, a 25% tariff on a $10 (£7.59) product would mean an additional $2.50 (£1.90) charge.

Companies that bring the foreign goods into the country have to pay the tax to the government.

For decades, Trump has argued that the US should use tariffs to boost its economy.

He says they will encourage US consumers to buy more American-made goods, increase the amount of tax raised and lead to huge levels of investment in the country.

However, there are warnings that the move could harm the world economy, and push up prices for consumers in the US and around the globe.

Read our full tariffs explainer here

Share
Analysis
Investors selling 'safe haven' US bonds
published at 15:16
15:16

Faisal Islam
Economics editor

There has been “aggressive” selling of long term US government bonds in the last 48 hours.

Bonds are essentially IOUs issued by the government to raise funds for its operations and projects.

A government sells bonds to investors, who lend it money in return for regular interest payments and the eventual repayment of the full amount when the bond matures.

Investors selling off long term government bonds is not typical behaviour, as until now they have been considered the safest of “safe haven” assets.

The effective interest rates for 10 and 30 year US borrowing has spiked very fast, and came among weak demand for US debt at an auction yesterday.

This is a “firesale of US Treasuries”, according to one Bank of America analyst.

This could have direct consequences for the price of US mortgages and business lending.

The question is what scale this is happening on – is China selling off some of its $759bn US government bonds?

Is this the unwinding of heavily leveraged bets on the overall shape of the US bond market - what is known as the “basis trade”?

It is difficult to know what might be worse here. But trade wars of this once-in-a-century size do not stay contained to the flow of the goods. They spread into credit markets and currency wars too.


Share
Average UK mortgage rates fall slightly
published at 15:09
15:09

Michael Race
Senior business and economics reporter

Mortgage lenders in the UK are looking at cutting rates amid the global economic turmoil following the introduction of US tariffs, including a 10% tax on goods being imported to the US from the UK.

According to the financial data company Moneyfacts, the average two-year fixed mortgage rate today is 5.3%, down from 5.32% on Tuesday. The average five-year fix is 5.15%, down from 5.17%.

Predictions have grown that interest rates in the UK could be cut by more than expected this year, if the Bank of England feels it needs to try to make borrowing money cheaper in order to give the economy a boost.

But it's a balancing act for the Bank. Its main job is to keep the inflation rate, which is how much prices rise on an yearly basis, at 2%. Currently, inflation is 2.8%.


Share
What's the latest on UK negotiations with US?
published at 15:05
15:05
The UK has got off lightly on tariffs, so far anyway.

It avoided Trump's "worst offenders" list and hit with a 10% "baseline" import duty - half of the 20% tariff placed on the European Union. This is on top of the 25% levies on aluminium, steel and cars.

UK Chancellor Rachel Reeves says Prime Minister Keir Starmer has been working on a trade deal with his US counterpart since visiting Washington back in February.

And Starmer himself said on Tuesday that trying to negotiate a deal which mitigates the levies is better than retaliatory tariffs.

But when might a deal be reached? Lisa Nandy, the culture secretary, refused to put a date on it this morning, but insisted the government was working "at pace".


Share
UK government 'confident' it will get US deal
published at 14:56
14:56
A file photo of Lisa Nandy - she is walking in Downing Street and smiling while holding a red folder
Image source,EPA
Back on UK shores, Culture Secretary Lisa Nandy tells BBC Radio 4's Today programme she is confident that Britain can get a trade deal with the US.

“We are committed to making sure we keep cool heads, we don’t have knee-jerk reactions. We don’t want to see the sort of retaliation and trade wars that have been happening overnight between the US and China," she says.

Asked if she can give a timeframe, she says "we absolutely feel the urgency", without giving an exact date.

But she adds: “We are working at pace. We are very confident that we'll get there."


Share
Analysis
Beijing: Don’t line up in front of Trump’s steamroller
published at 14:49
14:49

Stephen McDonell
China correspondent, reporting from Beijing

Xi Jinping sitting in a wood-panelled chamber
Image source,Reuters
China is positioning itself as a free trade champion standing up to the “bully” regime of Donald Trump - and using social media commentaries from party-controlled media to do so.

Just as the new 104% tariffs came into effect, an account linked to China Central Television posted that Trump’s strategy is clearly to pick off countries one by one as they go to Washington with the begging bowl.

In this way, it argues, President Trump can steamroll the less powerful.

China, on the other hand, would “show the whole world our firm determination to safeguard the multilateral trade system”.

This could go down well with the likes of Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. They’ve all been hit with massive US tariffs and the impossible demand from President Trump that they buy as much stuff from America as it buys from them.

So, consider the timing of a meeting Xi Jinping has just held in Beijing when he reportedly said China needs to “deepen all-round cooperation” with its neighbouring countries and, crucially, to “strengthen supply chain ties” with them.

This is how you use Trump’s trade chaos to increase your political and commercial influence internationally.


Share
Who are the so-called worst offenders?
published at 14:38
14:38
In the early hours of this morning - for us in London, at least - additional US tariffs on 60 countries deemed by Trump to be the "worst offenders" came into force.

Here are all the new tariffs by trading partner, with those with the highest share of US imports at the top:

A table titled 'Fifteen countries hit by biggest US tariffs in latest announcement. Two columns show the country and then what tariff they are facing. Top of the chart is Lesotho with 50% followed by Saint Pierre & Miquelon also at 50% and then Cambodia at 49%. Source is the White House and a note reads that the tariffs detailed on the chart are those on the White House website.

Share
Trading partners 'dying' to negotiate deals, says Trump
published at 14:34
14:34
We can bring you a few more lines from Trump's speech at a Republican Party dinner last night.

Speaking about trading partners wanting to negotiate deals with the US in the wake of tariffs, he said China - which has been hit with 104% tariffs - "want to make a deal...they just don't know how to get it started".

Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia and Taiwan are among key Asian countries who are hoping to speak with the Trump administration about tariffs, with some facing up to 49% on goods imported to the US.

"I'm telling you these countries are calling us up, kissing my ass," he told the audience. "They are dying to make a deal."


00:12
Media caption,
The US president says countries are telling him they'll 'do anything' for tariffs relief


Share
European Union votes today on retaliation measures
published at 14:29
14:29

Paul Kirby
Europe digital editor

The EU's 27 member states are expected to approve a big list of US products that will face tariffs from next week in response to President Trump's initial 25% import tax on European steel and aluminium last month.

The European tariffs will be imposed in three stages.

From next Tuesday, 15 April, the plan is to slap 25% tariffs on an initial list which is likely to include motorbikes, luxury boats and orange juice. American bourbon, wine and dairy were on the original EU list but have been dropped after lobbying from Europe's wine industry.

The initial measures were due to kick in on 1 April but were held back to give talks a chance. EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen's pitch for a zero-tariffs deal was rejected out of hand by Trump.

A second stage will kick in from mid-May, which is expected to feature textiles, leather goods, eggs, dental floss and poultry.

Then from 1 December counter-tariffs will be slapped on soybeans and almonds. Soybeans are used in animal feed and make up the biggest value for US exports to Europe.

A swathe of new 20% US tariffs has kicked in today on EU imports - and today's list being voted on in Brussels doesn't deal with those. The European Commission is busy preparing further counter-measures which could come out next week.


Share
Pharma stocks fall as Trump announces 'major' tariffs
published at 14:23
14:23

Jennifer Meierhans
Senior economics and business reporter

Drugmakers' stocks in Europe slipped after Trump reiterated plans for a "major" tariff on all pharmaceutical imports while speaking at a Republican Party dinner yesterday.

Medicines had previously been exempt from tariffs according to White House documents., external Trump did not say when and by how much he plans to raise taxes on pharma imports. But the change in stance prompted a wild swing in stocks.

British drugmakers AstraZeneca and GSK topped the losers board in London, both down over 4%. Europe's most valuable company Novo Nordisk, which produces weight-loss drugs Ozempic and Wegovy, fell around 5% in Copenhagen. French pharmaceutical group Sanofi and German biotech firm Sartorius also dropped around 5%.

The president has said the tariffs will incentivise drug companies to move their operations to the US. But analysts and companies have raised concerns about the difficulty in moving manufacturing there.


Share
How did we get here?
published at 14:12
14:12
Trump holding up a sign detailing reciprocal tariffs while giving a speech
Image source,Reuters
20 January: Trump uses his inauguration speech to outline plans to overhaul the trade system "to protect American workers" and introduce tariffs on foreign countries "to enrich our citizens"
1 February: He announces a 25% levy on Canadian and Mexican imports to the US - and an additional 10% on China
3 February: Mexico and Canada reach a deal to pause US tariffs for one month
10 February: Trump announces a 25% import tax on all steel and aluminium entering the US
4 March: The White House places an additional tariff on Chinese imports
12 March: Trump's 25% steel and aluminium tariffs take effect
26 March: The White House reveals new 25% duties on car and car partscoming into the US - those take effect from 2 April
2 April: Trump announces the US will impose "reciprocal tariffs" on certain countries, as well as a universal 10% levy on imports from all other countries
5 April: That 10% "baseline" tariff comes into effect
9 April: Custom tariffs on roughly 60 countries - dubbed the worst offenders - come into effect

Share
Beijing says it's willing to communicate with US to resolve 'friction'
published at 14:02
14:02
We can bring you more reaction now from China, after it was with a 104% excess on some exports to the US.

The US will not solve problems like its trade deficit and "lack of industrial competitiveness" through the tariff measures, China says in a White Paper published today.

"They seriously damage global trade order and the security and stability of global industrial and supply chains," the document reads.

The paper sets out that China has "always" maintained China-US trade relations are "mutually beneficial".

It adds that it is "natural" for the two countries to have "frictions" but underlines they need to respond each other's core interests.

Beijing is willing to communicate with Washington to resolve them, it adds.


Share
previous page
1
2
3
4
5
6
…
10
next page
Home
News
Sport
Business
Innovation
Culture
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
BBC emails for you
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.